Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are covering the topic of something called a cubic spline and in particular it's going to be a her
might cubic spline.
And why are we doing this.
We're doing this for interpellation.
Hence the name of a lecture her mite supplying a cubic interpellation.
And we are going to be basically playing with this lovely blue curve here and figuring out how.
By manipulating different points of our interpellation data from the server we're going to be able to
or going to need to use this curve this her might cubic spline.
So let's dive in and see why.
So the problem we were experiencing at the moment is that our movement for the car is very jarring.
And what we'd like to be able to achieve is a much smoother movement.
So these are points in the x y plane you can imagine is if we're taking a top down view of the car.
And these are the points we get from the Servat So a few updates.
We've got a first update second update third update and we want to interpolate between these so at the
moment we're doing a linear interpolation a Lerp between there and this is what the path would look
like it's linear it's straight you go directly from the first updaters second then then do a direct
turn to the next one you can see.
This creates a nice jihad movement.
It's quite jarring indeed.
And this is even worse because we have velocity.
So if we were to incorporate velocity.
Would it help.
Does it make this linear interpolation even worse.
Well yes it does because say that these were have lost two vectors they are a bit strange and higgledy
piggledy and you might be thinking well what kind of crazy route is the car going through.
But this might well be possible if your update interval was say 10 seconds.
It's a bit crazy but if it were 10 seconds then you could be doing all sorts of crazy routes in between
the updates.
And so that is a reason for trying to use a more broad more general type of interpolation than linear
that can take into account the velocity at the points because the kind of lie we'd like to draw through
this is something like this that incorporates that oh yeah we're kind of going this way but we must
have changed direction to at least be going slowly at this point in this direction and then oh yeah
over here we wanted to then turn around and be facing in the other direction for that velocity.
So this really helps.
For making smooth curves through these points having the velocity that even if we didn't have a loss
we could still have made a bit of a smoother movement through these points.
But with velocity we've got that extra information to incorporate.
So why not use it well.
How do we use it.
That is a question of tools we need some new tools here for that.
And I me just strip back the layers of complexity the new tool is polynomials you may have heard about
these in maths and I'm going to introduce you to polynomials of different degrees.
If you want to read more about this then Wikipedia is your friend.
But I'm just going to take a very high level stance on this.
So a first degree polynomial is what we call linnea which we've already used which means that as you
increase X then Y increases by a proportional amount we're familiar with these curves.
They are basically straight lines.
They go up at some angle and they cross the x axis in only one place.
There's no way they are going to curve back and cross the x axis again.
They only cross at one place.
Now the next level of complexity is a second degree polynomials are known as a quadratic and quadratic
take these kind of forms they can be like this way or the other way as well upturned.
Both those would be quadratic and in this case the we're moving with X squared so y equals X where do
the quadratic.
But there's obviously you can put some terms on that and so on.
But basically that's it.
This is a quadratic.
That's the form it takes and the interesting thing about it is that it cross the x axis in two places.
So this is starting to make sense.
Linear is a first degree and cross in one place quadratic is second degree and crosses in two places.
And finally we have kubic which is more complex still.
It's third degree and funny enough it can cross the x axis in up to three places.
Now with all of these they can cross the axis x axis in fewer places but they can't cross it in more
places.
So a quadratic can't cross more than twice but it can just cross once or zero times.
Same with linear.
Same with you.
OK so these are our polynomial tools.
I'm going to give you a little mini challenge here at this stage and to ask the question What is the
simplest curve that you can fit through these two points on the challenge slide.
Jot it down on a piece of paper it doesn't need to be exact just roughly.
These two curves with a velocity here and a velocity here and these two points.
What kind of curve would you fit through these two points.
Pause a video and have a go at drawing this on a piece of paper.
Okay.
Welcome back.
So hopefully you've had a go during this piece of paper.
The simplest curve that I could draw through without just you know just thinking about it.
Just looking at what would make sense with these velocities.
Right.
You'd be going in this direction initially then you must have come back on yourself to be going in that
direction again.
So what does this tell us.
Well quite clearly this couldn't be quadratic because if the x axis was here then it would have crossed
in three places so it can't be quadratic so it must be a cubic.
So that is the curve that we're going to be using to interpolate between the points from our server.
Now a little bit more information about this because it's one thing to say we're going to be using cubic
but cubic curves come in many forms.
How can we define one.
Well we're going to be using something called a mite kubic Strange but it's named after a French dude
call Charles her might or her MIT.
And he came up with this form of the kubic and if you're really really into your maths then I have got
a link here to a cube explaining that I've put together on a website called d'huez Moss dot com.
It's there for helping you plot out graphs.
And here you can manipulate this cube explosion as you like.
There's four points basically that you can move around.
You've got the starting point you've got the ending point and you've got essentially a velocity vector
that you can pull out and you can see how it affects the interpolation curve in between.
So that's quite fun to play with.
I do recommend you have a little go.
You can see how I get that kubik set up from before if I zoom out I can make it more prominent by making
have lost these larger.
You can see how that cubitt curve must cross the x axis in three places.
But no more.
And that's quite fun to play with and if you're really in to your maths and you understand your mathematical
notation you can have a look at the equation.
This one here under the her might cubic spline folder and there is this equation here which is the her
might cubic form and you can take a look at the Wikipedia article there for extra details on that.
But the interesting thing is that we're just defining the start point and end point and we're defining
the velocity also known as the first derivative.
And it's not really a velocity because it's rate of change over t and where T is our interpolation how
Lerp parameter.
So it's not really a velocity because it's not over time it's over this parameter t but it is still
the rate of change of the of the place the movement.
So that's what we've got here.
This lovely graph so do have a play around with that and read more about it if you like and in the next
lecture I'm going to show you how we can use her might cube explosions in unreel.
So I'll see you there.